# DevDynamos_Empowher
Women safety is a serious issue in our society and glaring negligence is their in our day to day lives towards ensuring that women feel safe especially while traveling, more so in areas that are new for them.
Knowing which routes are more crime-prone and having a map tell them a safe route would be quite helpful and prevent mishappenings from happening, also options to send SOS signals also helps if an unavoidable situation arises regardless. 
The app that we have created is focused on providing a safety application for women. It starts with a sign-in screen where one can sign-in or create their account if not already existing.
After signing up, the app asks for various permissions like location, files in your device and contacts in your device, it is preferred if the permissions are allowed for better functioning of the app. 
After this, you can see a multitude of options. A major part of the home screen consists of a SOS button that sends a distress signal when pressed, the signal is sent to the emergency contacts added by the user within the app. The second option is that of adding emergency contacts where we can add our trusted emergency contacts.  
Another great feature that we have added, is that of shake detection. Understanding that in an emergency situation it is not very feasible to open your phone and app, shake detection option is provided which when enabled, will give the benefit to the user, of only having to shake their device, to send the SOS distress call
Onto other options we have a profile tab, where information of the user is present. This includes their name, mail id, phone number and current location.
There is a button "Safest route" provided which when pressed will open a map, that will give us an option to enter destination from uers' current location that then uses the trained ML model, to determine a route that is the most safe for traversing relative to that location. The ML model is currently trained on a limited dataset as there is glaringly less available data regarding Indian cities and their crime rates. But fret not we have trained it over data for the crime capital Delhi itself.
There is another tab of helpline numbers clicking which will provide a list of hotline and national helpline number and also local helpline numbers.
The contact tab is also there where user can ad their trusted emergency contacts to easily contact and/or send distress signals quickly in cases of absolute emergencies.
Another tab that we have integrated is that of safety tips, this tab has a multitude of travel advisory that users, who are ideally women, should follow while traveling around, especially in areas unknown to them.
A settings tab is provided with various options like send sms, send notifications, play siren, call emergency services and shake detection which one can enable/disable as per their own personal volition.
There is an about tab provided that holds some information related to our app, its design etc.
